Topic 0: 

(Hi, I'm Jake Plummer, quarterback for the Arizona Cardinals)  On November 16, 1997 I set an NFL rookie record by passing for 388 yards, breaking the record set by this Cowboys quarterback

(Hi, I'm Misty May-Treanor.  And I'm Kerri Walsh.)Kerri & I won the USA's first gold in women's beach volleyball at the 2004 Olympics held in this city--we didn't lose a single set

(Hi, I'm Ed McCaffrey of the Denver Broncos)  Before we won the Super Bowl in '98, the last AFC team to win was this team led by Jim Plunkett at QB in 1984

(Hi, I'm NBA Hall-of-Famer John Havlicek)  The Celtics have won 16 NBA titles, including 1968 & 1969 when we were led by this man, the NBA's first black head coach

Bud Selig, seen here, pulled double duty as Major League Baseball commissioner & owner of this team that shook up baseball when it switched leagues in 1997

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE):"(Hi, I'm Mike Piazza)  I was the NL's '93 Rookie Of The Year.  In '68 this Cincinnati Reds player became the 1st catcher to win the award"

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE):"(Hi, I'm Reggie Jackson)  Only 3 men have been named MVP of the World Series twice:  me, Sandy Koufax & this Cardinals pitcher in 1964 & 1967"

(Hi, I'm Jason Elam of the Denver Broncos.)  In 1998 I earned a trip to the NFL's Pro Bowl, held each year in this city where I played college ball

(Hi, I'm Eddie George of the NFL.)  For consecutive starts among running backs, I rank second only to this late, great Chicago Bear

(Hi, I'm Kristi Yamaguchi)  In 1992 I became the first American woman to win an Olympic gold medal in figure skating since this woman in 1976

Topic 1: 

Sacre bleu!  Eet takes so long sailing from Dover to zees closest French port; next time, I take zee Chunnel

Hells Canyon, North America's deepest canyon, lies in this Idaho national forest named for Chief Joseph's tribe

The white at the top of a Canadian territorial coat of arms represents the polar regions; the wavy blue line, this trade route

The Lena River, one of Russia's longest, rises 10 miles from this deep Siberian lake & flows 2,734 miles to the Arctic Ocean

The Centennial Trail covers 111 miles in these hills, from Bear Butte State Park to Wind Cave Naional Park

Tours in this faraway land include a safari in Royal Chitwan National Park & rafting trips near Katmandu

The Gran Chaco is a low, flat plain covering western Paraguay, southern Bolivia & the northern part of this country

This people's Old Oraibi pueblo in Arizona, settled around 1150, may be the USA's oldest continuously inhabited village

Cannes is a chief city in this region, the eastern end of the Mediterranean coast of France, named for its blue sky & sea

Lewis & Clark's winter home Fort Clatsop is an attraction in this Oregon city, the oldest settlement west of the Rockies

Topic 2: 

As well as offering gambling & a gallery of fine art, this Las Vegas hotel also boasts a conservatory & botanical gardens

50 years after San Francisco's cable cars became a National Historic Landmark, this city's street railway got the designation in 2014

The New York Public Library exhibit "Lunch Hour NYC" includes a reassembled one of these beloved & once very modern dispensers

In 1942 Fiorello La Guardia became the first mayor to reside in this home built in 1799 by a New York City merchant

The great pavement in front of the high altar at this London church uses a mosaic technique called cosmati work

The clock in front of this New York City railway terminal may be the world's largest example of Tiffany glass

The Philadelphia Museum of Art has works by this famed local artist, like the one seen here, & a parking lot named for him

Eli Whitney also built factories to make guns; one produced copies of this man's revolver after its invention in 1835

In 1450 Johann Fust loaned this printer money; 5 years later, he sued for the money owed & set up his own printing firm

to New York City where we visited the Museum of Modern Art & saw this man's famous painting, "Starry Night"

Topic 3: 

(Sarah of the Clue Crew tries to blow out a candle from a distance, first with her mouth, then a plastic soda bottle.)  Blowing out a candle from far away is hard because the blown air disperses, but concentrate the air through a small opening & it creates a whirling mass of air like a tornado called this

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from behind the wheel of a Tesla at Tesla Motors in Fremont, CA.)  Unlike an internal combustion gas engine with many moving parts, a Tesla motor only has one, the rotor--as a result, this increase in velocity is instantaneous, allowing you to go from 0 to 60 in 4.2 seconds

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reads the clue in scuba gear from inside a tank in the Maui Ocean Center.)  As opposed to bony fishes, sharks & rays are elasmobranchs with skeletons made up of this softer material: less is known of their evolution because they leave fewer fossils than bony fish

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew stands in front of another apparatus.)  A device that uses microchips to detect one cancer cell in a billion may supersede this technique of taking tissue samples from living patients and may lead to finding  cancers before tumors form

(Sarah of the Clue Crew inflates a large black bag.)  The black plastic of the solar bag allows for rapid absorption of the sun's rays speeding up the heated air molecules, which become less this than the cool air outside, causing the bag to float

(Kelly of the Clue Crew experiments with water and a paper clip.)  Drop a paper clip into water, it sinks; drop it onto a paper towel, & because of the attraction of molecules of the same substance, called cohesion, this condition is created that seems to form a skin, allowing it to float

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew brings us the clue from outside CERN in Geneva, Switzerland.) CERN's globe is a symbol of the Earth and sustainable development; its structure is wood, a material that minimizes the greenhouse effect, due to its ability to store rather than emit this element.

(Kelly of the Clue Crew shows us the solar array on the roof of Sony Pictures Studios.)  Solar panels like the one used here at Sony convert energy from the sun into direct current, using these types of cells, PV for short

(Jon of the Clue Crew shows himself on the monitor, swiveling around in a chair with dumbbells in his hands, extending and contracting his arms.)  When I draw my arms inward, my angular velocity increases because my angular mass decreases; the product of those two quantities is called angular this

(Sarah of the Clue Crew shows an astronomical animation on the monitor.)  From Earth's point of view, shown here by the red line, planets sometimes appear to reverse direction because the Earth overtakes them in their orbits; the backward motion is called this--from the Latin for "walking backward"

Topic 4: 

John Paul II is the first pope known to have entered a mosque (in Damascus) & also one of these (the great one of Rome)

As Pope Alexander VI, Rodrigo Borgia fought the invasion of Italy by King Charles VIII of this country; plague helped

During the last 17 years of his reign, Spain's King Philip II also ruled as this neighboring country's King Philip I

In 1990 support by Margaret Thatcher helped John Major become leader of this party & prime minister of the United Kingdom

I gotta hand it to Gen. Gebhard von Blucher, 72 years old, commanding the Prussian troops at this June 1815 battle

General Henri Navarre's failure to recognize a fully mobilized Viet Minh led to the fall of this hamlet in May 1954

In the Middle Ages New Year's Day was observed on March 25, this feast day that celebrates Mary's visit from Gabriel

De Gaulle's June 18, 1940 broadcast in this city asking for France's leadership led to a death sentence in a French court

In 1957 Sultan Muhammad V took the title "King" a year after France gave this north African country its independence

A bullet that struck Pope John Paul II was placed in the crown of a statue of the Virgin Mary in this Iberian village

Topic 5: 

(Justice Sandra Day O'Connor presents the clue.)  Getting Congress to put up the Supreme Court Building & establishing the Court's control over its own docket are just 2 contributions of this chief justice who also held another high office

(I'm "New York Times" reporter James Risen.) In my book "State of War" I examined secret & controversial efforts made by the CIA to delay this country's nuclear arms program

(Madam Secretary Hillary Clinton delivers the clue.)  In 1781, the State Department's precursor, the Department of Foreign Affairs, was established for the purpose of "friendly correspondence" with other nations by this legislature

(I'm Campbell Brown.)  On March 4, 2008 John McCain clinched the GOP nomination with 4 primary wins including this vast state, where he made his victory remarks

Young Bill won so many honors, the high school principal barred him from running for student body pres in this Arkansas town

(I'm John DeStefano, Mayor of New Haven, but) This man, our first mayor, was the only man to sign the 4 great U.S. founding documents, including the Constitution

(Kweisi Mfume reads the clue.)  This award, the NAACP's highest honor, was first bestowed in 1915 & named for a past chairman of the NAACP

(Vice President Biden reads the clue.)  The idea of a vice president was proposed at the Constitutional Convention by this first Secretary of the Treasury

Born Lucila Godoy Alcayaga in Vicuna, Chile, she was the first Latin American woman to win a Nobel Prize in literature

As a Supreme Court law clerk, this future Chief Justice wrote a 1952 memo arguing the "separate but equal" position

Topic 6: 

This hard, white fat found around the kidneys of cattle & sheep is often melted down to form tallow to make candles

To cook Japanese noodles, whether somen, soba or these thick wheat ones, gradually add them to a pot of boiling water

The vegan version of this holiday classic uses soy milk, extra firm silken tofu & of course rum & nutmeg

The male of this baboon relative is quite colorful--blue cheeks, a long red nose & a red, blue & violet rump

Fish, fish & more fish is on the menu for this bird of prey with long wings & a white head, also known as a fish hawk

Something smells fishy--must be this chopped fish patty mixed with crumbs & eggs & served cold in a jellied broth

A Hawaiian greasy spoon might well serve a dish called musubi made with rice, seaweed & this Hormel product

Also called tigre americano, it's unique among big cats in using its canine teeth to pierce the skull of prey

Get out the pita chips!  Sabra makes this Middle Eastern dip in flavors like jalapeno & roasted red pepper

Invented in Cuba, a mojito is made with lime juice, club soda, sugar, ice, mint leaves & this kind of alcohol

Topic 7: 

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE):British group seen here in a hit from their debut album:"If you wanna be my lover /You gotta get with my friends /Make it last forever /Friendship never ends..."

(Hi, I'm Kyra Sedgwick.)  I'm always listening to this band's classics like "Crash", but true fans know you've got to see DMB live to really get the experience

(AUDIO DAILY DOUBLE):Gwen Verdon sang the following song in the original Broadway version of this show:"Whatever Lola wants, Lola gets..."

John Dos Passos work, or the group heard here:"Ooh wah ooh wah cool cool kitty /Asks about the boy from New York City..."

[AUDIO DAILY DOUBLE] I. Berlin wrote songs & Rodgers & Hamerstein 1st produced this show featuring the following: Anything you can do, I can do better!  I can do anything better than you!

"La la la, la la la, la la la, la la la" this part-french title, "lovely as a summer day"

(Alex: Check out this gang...)"I said a hip hop the hippie the hippie to the hip hip hop, a you don't stop the rock it to the bang bang boogie"

Movie in which you'd hear the following:"Luck be a lady tonight, luck be a lady tonight, luck if you've ever been lady to begin with, luck be a lady tonight!"

1861 song that was the basis of the following Elvis Presley hit:"Love me tender, love me sweet, never let me go /You have made my life complete..."

"In the jungle, welcome to the jungle, watch it bring you to your sha na na na na na na na knees, knees"

Topic 8: 

This time, a comedy:"Beware my sting!""She will be my chattel.  Ha ha ha!""I'm starved!"[Snores]"Giddy from lack of sleep.  What is thy will, sir?""Mm-wah!""Ha ha ha ha ha!""Ha ha ha ha ha!""Ah!""Ah!"

Hamlet's most famous one of these speeches includes the following linesWhether tis' nobler in the mind to suffer the slings & arrows of outrageous fortune, or to take arms against a sea of troubles & by opposing...

This book says, "I thought Jem and I would get grown but there wasn't much else left for us to learn, except possibly algebra"

Gelett Burgess wrote, "I never saw" this, "I never hope to see one; but I can tell you, anyhow I'd rather see than be one"

Song whose chorus goes, "Valderi, valdera, valderi, valdera ha ha ha ha ha ha..."

1969:"Kid, the next time I say let's go someplace like Bolivia, let's go someplace like Bolivia"

A Greek god who was half man, half goat & known for causing terror gives us this word for sudden terror

Society expectations doom all in this play; when girl say, "this is thy sheath" & stabs self, hulk bawl like baby!

The next 3 words of lyric poet Robert Herrick's "To the Virgins, to make much of time", "Gather ye rosebuds..."

Sadly, this final act of Goethe's infatuated hero young Werther was widely imitated by young romantic readers

Topic 9: 

(Hi, I'm Bebe Neuwirth.)  I won 2 Emmy Awards for playing this wife of Frasier Crane on "Cheers" & later played his then ex-wife on "Frasier" receiving another nomination

(Hi, I'm Sam Waterston.)  I received my 1st Emmy nomination for the television version of this play; I played Tom & Katharine Hepburn played my mother, Amanda Wingfield

(Hi, I'm Austin Peck from "Days of Our Lives")  Versatile actor Robert Clary has played Robert Leclair on "Days of Our Lives" & Lebeau on this series

(Hi, I'm David Duchovny.) I love Fitzgerald; Hank Moody, the novelist I play, is partial to this Prague-born writer who illustrated man's alienation in society

It was a character on this show to which the actress accepting an Emmy here was saying goodbye:"It's so sad, this is sort of my last time to say good-bye & to this character, Nancy Weston..."

(Hi.  I'm Beau Bridges.) My real name is Lloyd Vernet Bridges III, but my parents called me Beau after Ashley Wilkes' son in this novel

(Lucy Liu reads from the set of Elementary.)  Like the original John Watson character, my character has this profession before she takes up with Sherlock Holmes

(Hi, I'm Brian Stokes Mitchell.) I won a Tony for my portrayal of an actor playing Petruchio in the 1999 revival of this classic Cole Porter musical

[Hi, I'm Wendie Malick from "Just Shoot Me"] I played Brian Benben's ex-wife Judith on this HBO comedy series that featured clips from old movies

Tony Curtis took the Joe E. Brown role, not the Tony Curtis part, in a new musical based on this Billy Wilder film

