Quizbowl Topics and Their Questions 
Topic 0: 

After the death of this countrys first prime minister, its government passed the Indemnity Ordinance. Japanese Airlines Flight 472 was forced to land in this countrys capital after the Japanese Red Army hijacked it. A prime minister of this country was implicated in the Janata Tower Case. A former prime minister of this country was killed in a grenade attack by the HUJI organization, while another terrorist group in this country was captured by its Rapid Action Battalion. A terrorist attack in this country saw five hundred small bombs explode at various government buildings within a span of 30 minutes; that attack was carried out by the JMB. This nation was home to the Jatiya party of Muhammed Ershad and another political group in this country launched the Six-point movement; the leader of that group was assassinated by Zaiur Rahman and was named Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. This nations independence was secured by the efforts of a group that started a particular language movement, known as the Awami League; that independence was achieved in 1971 after a war with Pakistan. For 10 points, name this country with capital at Dhaka.

As the leader of the Army of Ohio this man led a campaign in East Tennessee which successfully defended Knoxville from the forces of James Longstreet. This man led a campaign in 1862 which captured most of the coast of North Carolina as part of the Anaconda Plan. This man's Mud March, a failed attempt to surprise Lee's forces from behind after a crossing of the Rappahannock River, led to his replacement by Joseph Hooker. This man was permanently relieved of duty for his botched efforts in the Battle of the Crater which failed to end the Siege of Petersburg. This man was offered command of one army following the failure of the Peninsular Campaign and again after the Second Battle of Bull Run, but he only accepted the position after a battle in which he took hours trying to cross a bridge defended by Confederate sharpshooters which now bears his name, the Battle of Antietam. For 10 points, name this Union general who is best remembered for his disastrous attempt to take Richmond in 1862 after replacing George McClellan as commander of the Army of the Potomac which ended with the Battle of Fredericksburg.

One ruler of this name and number concluded the Treaty of Vercelli with the Lombard towns and struggled for control of Italian possession with Tancred of Lecce. That ruler of this name and number married Constance, the daughter of Roger II, which allowed this man to press his claim to the Sicilian throne. Another ruler of this name and number had a minority rule that never officially ended and was advised by Humphrey, duke of Gloucester, and William de la Pole, the duke of Suffolk. That ruler lost the battle of Towton, leading to his imprisonment in the Tower of London. Briefly restored by Richard Neville, the Earl of Warwick, this husband of Margaret of Anjou was murdered in the Tower after Warwicks forces were routed at Tewksbury by Edward IV, who succeeded this man. For ten points, identify this regnal name and number of the Hohenstaufen Holy Roman Emperor, a son of Barbarossa succeeded by Frederick II, and the Lancastrian English king during the first phase of the Wars of the Roses.

Ten million guelders were exchanged for Maastricht in one treaty of this name, which confirmed the Treaty of Muenster in granting the United Provinces sovereignty over the Scheldt Estuary. In another treaty of this name, Louis XV granted troops from the Irish regiments to serve under Charles Edward Stuart. One treaty by this name proved inconsequential when Gustavus Adolphus kicked the shit out of Bavaria despite a secret French alliance, and a later treaty here established the Kingdom of Algarve as part of a three-way partition of Portugal following the (*)Peninsular War. Another treaty of this name resulted in a rebellion that was suppressed by Alejandro O'Reilly after the power transfer of a polity governed by Charles Philippe Aubry from France to Spain in 1762; that transferred polity being Louisiana. Another treaty of this name ceded three duchies to Empress Marie-Louise and mandated exile in Elba for Napoleon. For 10 points, name this location that also saw an edict by Louis XIV that revoked the Edict of Nantes.

One phase of this war was a revolt by a group sometimes called Cadets of the Cross against the policy of Dragonnade, and was sparked by the assassination of Franois Langlade before being quenched with the Pacification of the Camisards. Following this conflict, the Dutch were given the right to build a line of fortresses in the Barrier Treaties. The most successful naval commander in this war was George Rooke, who tried to raid a treasure fleet at Vigo Bay. The British won the right to supply 4800 slaves yearly to Spanish colonies and Rooke later won a strategic victory at Velez-Malaga before capturing Gibraltar from Philip V of Spain. One side was commanded by generals like Duc de Villars, who lost the battles of Bouchain and Malpaquet to the Duke of Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy. This war was sparked when Louis XIV's grandson was named heir to Charles II. For 10 points, name this war ended by the Treaty of Utrecht fought over control of an Iberian throne.

Mahmud Yalavach was sent as envoy to this polity, which had been his birthplace, and this polity was paid tribute by Sa'd ibn Zangi, the Salghurid atabeg of Shiraz. An attempt to revive this polity established a capital at Tabriz and was led by the ruler who had earlier won at the Battle of Parwan before being defeated at the Indus, Jalal al-Din. The downfall of this polity began when one of its vassals, Inalchuq, the governor of Otrar, killed the members of a caravan, after which the ruler of this polity beheaded some ambassadors and shaved their beards. This polity feuded on its east with (*) Kuchlug, who had destroyed its earlier enemy, the Karakitai empire. Its first ruler, Anustegin Gharacha'i, was originally a slave of Malik-Shah and thus came to power as a vassal of the Seljuks, while it reached its greatest extent under Shah Muhammad II. For 10 points, name this empire that controlled much of Persia and central asia in the early 13th century before being conquered by Genghis Khan, originally centered in modern Uzbekistan.

A man who held an earlier form of this position set the precedent for female suffrage by overruling the exclusion of women from local parish councils, though he mostly used this office to amass a fortune in diamond bribes from nefarious Chinese businessmen. Prior to issuing his namesake doctrine as Secretary of State in response to Japan's invasion of Manchuria, Henry Stimson held this post, as did a man who became uncompromisingly genocidal and personally led the butchery of the (*) Moro Crater Rebellion. Theodore Roosevelt chose his Secretary of War based on that man's able administration of this post, held by Arthur MacArthur and Leonard Wood, which in 1942 was assumed by Masuharu Homma after the Battle of Corregidor. Assumed by William H. Taft in the wake of the defeat of Emilio Aguinaldo, for 10 points, name this office tasked with administering a U.S.-controlled island chain with cities like Quezon and Manila.

Shortly after this nation achieved independence, Sir Stephen Tallents settled the border with its southern neighbor, dividing the city of Valga. A major foreign policy concern for this country is reacquiring the former Petseri County, which had been granted to this country in a 1920 treaty. Friedrich Kreutzwald was the first to document the Setu people found in its Voru County, and on this country's eastern coast and islands, the Rannarootslased, ethnic Swedes, form a small minority. With important ports like Sillamae, Ida-Viru County is this country's chief industrial area, though more economically and environmentally important are the facilities and power plants associated with this nation's oil shale reserves near the city of Narva. The home of the city of Tartu, it is located to the west of the Leningrad Oblast and to the north of Latvia. For 10 points, name this Baltic republic, whose economic hub is the capital Tallinn.

The campaign leading up to this engagement began following the failure to renew the twenty year old Peace of Vasvar, which had been signed after the Battle of Saint Gotthard. This battle was preceded by a slaughter at Perchtoldsdorf, and it was fought on Kahlenberg Heights. This engagement was preceded by a kuruc uprising led by the Calvinist Imry Thokoly, and Ernst Rudiger von Starhemberg was the commander of the garrison which was besieged prior to it. The decisive action in this battle was history's largest cavalry charge, which was led by 3,000 hussars, and Charles, Duke of Lorraine led the forces of his brother-in-law Leopold I at this battle. Grand Vizier Kara Mustafa was executed for his failure in this battle by Sultan Mehmed IV, and the Christian force was victorious in it due to the aid of John III Sobieski of Poland. For 10 points, name this 1683 battle which ended Ottoman domination of Eastern Europe outside the capital of the Hapsburg Empire.

This capital city of Henry the Illustrious in the early 13th century saw the training of a significant number of troops at its Albertstadt prior to World War I. Frederick the Great recognized Francis I as Holy Roman Emperor in a treaty named for this city that ended the Second Silesian War. Home to many rulers of the Wettin line, the May Rising here marked the last of the Revolutions of 1848 and saw the attempted ousting of a king who ruled from this city, Frederick Augustus II. A battle named for this city saw the garrison of Laurent Gouvion-Saint-Cyr relieved by a long march by Napoleon, marking the emperor's last victory in Germany. The Marshall Inquiry condoned a decision by Arthur Harris to attack this "Florence on the Elbe" by the RAF and US Army Air Force. For 10 points, name this traditional capital of Saxony, notably firebombed in February 1945.

Topic 1: 

One version of this scene features a triplet of angels underneath arches on both the left and the right, while the central figure has his feet kissed by a woman wearing red. Another version shows a woman holding a candle in front of the central figure and another fainting on the right. In addition to Fra Angelico and Rembrandt's versions, another version in the Capponi Chapel has brightly-shaded figures in a whorl-like arrangement around the central figure, who is held by two men on tiptoes at the bottom left. Two men are standing on a ladder holding the central figure in Reubens version, while a skull lies next to a swooning woman in blue in another version found in the Prado and commissioned by a crossbowman's guild, which shows the central figure with wounds in his side and punctures in his arms and legs. For 10 points, name this religious scene painted by Pontormo and Van der Weyden, in which Christ is taken off of the cross.

A charity dinner he attended inspired his painting of several men in red and blue shirts crowding around a pole in the middle of the room, while another painting depicts, among other things, three elephants, a giraffe, and a man in a top hat underneath a gray canopy. In addition to Fireman's Dinner for Brancusi and Circus Scene, he also created a work depicting two humans suckling a wolf entitled Romulus and Remus and one consisting primarily of red circles, Red Lily Pads. Other works by him include a miniature circus, complete with moving parts, made out of wire, a sculpture designed to have a hazardous element dripped over it, and a 53 foot-tall red structure in Chicago's Federal Plaza. Mercury Fountain and Flamingo were both created by, for 10 points, what American sculptor whose Lobstertrap and Fishtail exemplifies a medium of art he created, the mobile?

One painting in this genre by this artist depicts an indistinct yellow creature leaping towards a long trail of smoke coming from the chimney of an orange house. Another of these works by this artist depicts a dark crescent moon above a blue church building on the right, while on the left a rooster pokes his head out from behind a woman in a wedding dress. In the most famous of them, a white Eiffel Tower is visible through a window in the back left, while a small village amongst clouds is depicted on the right, symbolizing its artists being torn between modern Paris and pastoral Vitebsk. The central figure of that one holds a palette and makes an unusual gesture towards a painting of a woman and a red goat. For 10 points, identify this group of paintings that includes one whose subject has seven fingers, all of which depict and are painted by the artist of I and the Village.

The upper-right corner of this painting contains a white mountain peak with a pattern of shadows resembling the silhouette of a striding man. Its background features several small buildings at the foot of a dark mountain, in front of which a road curves toward the horizon. On that road are a group of eight multicolored human figures that this work's painter referred to as the heterosexuals. A statue facing away from the viewer is displayed on a red plinth on a chessboard to the right of this painting's central figures, one of which casts a shadow on a (*) malnourished dog eating from a pile of meat in the bottom-right. The right side of this painting contains a group of ants crawling upon an upward-reaching blue-gray hand, on which is perched an egg from which a daffodil blooms. For 10 points, identify this Ovid-inspired painting whose title figure stares at his reflection in a lake, a work of Salvador Dali.

This work is paired with a work set near Le Pouldu, and its central figure is derived from a sculpture in the Trmalo Chapel. This painting also appears in a work behind a mustachioed man in a blue sweater. The artist's signature appears on the white headdress of one of the women depicted. In the top right hand corner of this painting is a row of three houses with blue roofs, and another is obscured by some (*) red bushes. Two trees are separated by a stone wall in the middle, and a man dressed in blue steps over that wall in the background. The foreground of this painting is dominated by a figure standing with one foot over the other, with his genitals covered by a white cloth. For 10 points, identify this depiction of the crucifixion of Jesus in the title color, a work by Paul Gauguin.

This artist portrayed angels hovering around the central couple who gazes at the titular Three Candles in one work. Numerous people row away in a raft from the central scene in one of his works, which also depicts two men with large red flags enter the scene from the left. A man in green carrying a sack over his shoulder is present in the foreground of that work, which also depicts a burning synagogue. A lit menorah is placed at the foot of the central cross in that work, and a church can be seen beside a few houses in the background of this artists most famous work. A goat can be seen being milked in the foreground of that work, which also includes a man in a red hat and a goat who stare intensely at each other. For 10 points, name this Russian artist of The White Crucifixion and I and the Village.

In one of this artist's paintings, Saint Sixtus and Saint Barbara flank a woman standing on a cloud-covered globe, while two pensive cherubs look up at her from the bottom. Another of this artist's paintings is a tondo usually named for the Spanish family that once owned it, and depicts the infant John the Baptist giving a thin cross to the infant Jesus, who sits in the lap of Mary in a pastoral meadow. In a similar painting by this artist, the infant John the Baptist stands in a meadow and gives a small golden bird to the infant Jesus. This Italian Renaissance artist is renowned for his many Madonnas, which include the Sistine Madonna, the Alba Madonna, and the Madonna of the Goldfinch. For 10 points, name this artist who also showed Plato and Aristotle conversing at the center of his The School of Athens.

The central object of this painting was in fact copied from a work done by John Dunthorne. A similarly titled work hasa work on its outer shutters titled The Path of Life and is a triptych by Bosch.It depicts a scene near Suffolk, and one of the locations seen was owned by Willy Lott. A brown and white dog can be seen in the lower center of this work while a small boat can be seenon the right side. The center of the work is dominated by several large trees which are in front of a small meadow and behind a red and white brick structure that is somewhat dilapidated. A cottage can be seen on the left situated on Flatford Mill and thetitular vehicle can be seen in the center, drawn by horses. FTP, identify this 19th century work by John Constable.

This artist portrayed John the Baptist, Jesus, Mary, and Saint Anne in a work known as the Burlington House car- toon. Another work by this painter likely shows Cecilia Gallerani; later artists colored in her veil so that it looks like her hair wraps around her face. That work is Lady with an Ermine. Another painting by this artist shows the infant John the Baptist under the care of Uriel while meeting the infant Jesus. The center of that painting shows Mary wear- ing an aquamarine blue dress, and there are separate versions of it in the Louvre and the National Gallery of London. This artist also painted a portrait of Lisa Gherardini and a depiction of Jesus eating with his apostles. Name this painter of Virgin of the Rocks, a Last Supper, and the Mona Lisa.

This artist created a torso of a man with his belly out and the stubs of his limbs splayed in a work depicting Marsyas similar to his full-body The Falling Man. One of this mans sculptures shows three nude men with their heads bent together and their left arms limply outstretched together with their hands meeting. This artist of The Three Shades also created an armless, headless figure, his (*) Walking Man. He was accused of using a live model for one work, while another was a rejected depiction of an enrobed Honor de Balzac. He depicted Paolo Malatesta and Francesca di Rimini locked in embrace in another work. For 10 points, name this sculptor of The Age of Bronze whose unfinished Gates of Hell included versions of The Kiss and The Thinker.

Topic 2: 

This thinker wrote an essay entitled The Overvaluation of Love which looks at the histories of seven women and their obsessive need for a male partner. This theorist believed that people have two views of the self: the ideal self is used as a model for the real self when working toward self-actualization, but trouble arises when the real self deteriorates into the despised self. The need for a partner and the need for social recognition are two of this thinker's ten patterns of needs - which are classified as "moving towards," "moving against," or "moving away from" people. Those three coping strategies were outlined by this thinker in the book Our Inner Conflicts. This author of New Ways in Psychoanalysis, and founder of the American Journal of Psychoanalysis, argued that cultural factors and not biological factors explain the different neuroses that arise in men and women. FTP, name this female psychoanalyst who developed the notion of womb envy.

This thinker's first published work was an edited collection of the sermons of Benjamin Whichcote, in which he claimed that one of his friends "threw all order and virtue out of the world." Henry Sidgwick remarked in his Outline of the History of Ethics that this man's major work "marks a turning point" since he was the first to take "psychological experience as the basis of ethics." Although he held that theism was the "perfection and height of virtue," this thinker allowed that atheists may be virtuous and held that a false belief was worse than none at all, and he used the term "moral sense" to refer to second-order sentiments which in his view were affections for those affections which have moral value. The author of essays collected in Characteristicks of Men, Manners, Opinions, and Times, for ten points, identify this British philosopher best known for "An Inquiry Concerning Virtue or Merit," and for being educated by John Locke.

One writer claimed that this concept is an experience of [the] limits of nature in an essay that distinguishes this concept from the marvelous and events not controlled by natural laws. This concept was first introduced in a work that claims that bright children are more fearful since they are aware of the limits of their knowledge and also argues this phenomenon arises from intellectual uncertainty about one's usual environment. It was described in Tzvetan Todorov's "The Fantastic" and in an essay by Ernst Jentsch, the latter of which formed the basis of another essay about this concept that claims that the fear of blinding in E.T.A. Hoffman's The Sandman represented a fear of (*) castration. That essay claims that this concept is the return of repressed infantile fears and traces the linguistic origins of this concept from the German word for unhomely. This concept is also explained as the unease when confronted with a look-alike or a severed hand. For 10 points, name this concept, the subject of an essay by Freud about the uncomfortably strange, which names a valley that describes the reaction to robots that look too human.

Bart Schultz wrote about this man's feminism, and titled a book [this man]: Eye of the Universe. One of this man's works notably claimed that the only thing that could ultimately be judged to be good was a mode of human existence. He wrote about the undesirability of "The Morality of Strife" and "The Ethics of Relgious Conformity" in another one of his works, and a further work by this man discusses the importance of the Individualistic Minimum. The author of Practical Ethics and The Elements of Politics, one of this man's most notable students was the author of Principia Ethica, George Edward Moore, although his own best known work claimed that its title constructions came out of a series of judgments which didn't only apply in the case of consequences and introduced the term the "Dictate of Reason." For 10 points, name this nineteenth century British philosopher, a utilitarian best known for writing The Methods of Ethics.

In its last section, this work attacks Pyrronian skepticism for being too broad and advocates replacing it with an academic skepticism limited to matters of fact and abstract concepts. This work uses examples from epic poetry to explain the three form of association. It claims that both external observation and internal reflection are necessary in order to understand causal relationships. In its second chapter, this work argues that experienced impressions are always more complete than (*) ideas of thought. This book argues that Christianity is better when founded on faith in a section that denies the existence of the namesake religious phenomena because they contradict the laws of nature. The only objection to the copy principle appears in a thought experiment that claims that a man can always conceive of a certain color without ever experiencing it. For 10 points, name this expansion of A Treatise of Human Nature that contains Of Miracles and an account of the missing shade of blue, a book by David Hume.

One work by this philosopher acknowledged that the idealized Jesus and Mary may have historical roots in a section that explores the role of the religious imagination in forming the title concept. That work also claims that while pleasure is universal, the title quality is subjective, not an intrinsic quality of an object. In another book, this man rejects democracy in favor of a natural aristocracy in the section about its subject in society" and asserts that ideals have no meaning if they are not rooted in the (*) natural world. Another section of that work laments this man's loss of his faith and claims that Catholicism's value lies in its mythology. This man argued that idealism is irrelevant, since everything can be doubted, in a work that urges humans to follow the title instinct. For 10 points, name this author of The Sense of Beauty and The Life of Reason, who claimed that philosophy begins in medias res in Skepticism and Animal Faith.

One work by this man claims that ancient humans feeling extended beyond other people and gave rise to nature idolatry and totemism. That work describes five characteristics of the title phenomenon and claims its communal nature distinguishes it from magic. Another work by this man contrasts repressive and restitutory laws and differentiates primitive societies that maintain order through a collective consciousness from advanced societies that require economic and moral regulation. In another work, this author of Elementary Forms of Religious Life claimed that imbalances in social integration and moral strictness lead to the egoistic, fatalistic, altruistic, and anomistic forms of the title action. For 10 points, name this French sociologist who outlined mechanical and organic solidarity in The Division of Labor in Society and wrote Suicide.

This work cites St. Jerome's interpretation of the four creatures in a cloud envisioned by Ezekiel to analyze the functional characteristics of men and eventually distinguish between synderesis and conscience. In its second section, this work posits that fallen angels are still subject to God's designs because God fated them to fall from grace in order to test the faith of humans. This work's final section expands St. Augustine's definition of the sacraments to characterize them as causing the grace they signify. Thomas Aquinas appended a commentary on this work as the last part of the Summa Theologica, and this work arranges biblical texts in conjunction with quotations of Church Fathers and contemporary theologians in a comprehensive overview of medieval theology. The standard theological textbook of the Middle Ages, FTP, name this four-book work by Peter Lombard.

One section of this work examines how those in ancient times shaped their lives to aesthetically match certain goals and norms, terming this the arts of existence. This work labels the methods that a state uses to measure and control its population in the modern age as bio-power. Only the first three of its planned six volumes were published, the second and third being studies of ancient Greek and Roman life respectively. Its first volume is an introduction which examines the way the Catholic ritual of confession was implemented in order to unbalance a power relationship by creating endless dialogue about the title subject. This work fervently attacks the repressive hypothesis, arguing in its volumes The Care of the Self, The Use of Pleasure and The Will to Knowledge that regime of power-knowledge-pleasure has remained in constant discourse for the last several centuries. For 10 points, name this work of Michel Foucault.

A pair of works this philosopher edited, one with Herbert Feigl and another with John Hospers, brought American pragmatism and logical positivism together with elements of analytic philosophy. This philosopher contrasted the manifest and the scientific image, but he is better known for a critique of a phenomenon whose manifestations include the idea that one's access to one's own mental states is privileged, the idea that empirical knowledge has any kind of foundation, and the classical sense-datum theory. This philosopher, whose early essays are collected in Pure Pragmatics and Possible Worlds, explicated his support for a flavor of transcendental idealism in Science and Metaphysics: Variations on Kantian Themes. For 10 points, name this originator of psychological nominalism who attacked the myth of the given and wrote Philosophy and the Scientific Image of Man and Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind.

Topic 3: 

An individual who would become king as a result of this event was conceived by a man covered in gold that arrived in a silver boat and asked his mother Shall I have an hour of lovemaking with you? A golden ring given by that father would later be used to trigger the second event of this name, which resulted in the secret of agriculture being revealed by Bres. One of these events took place at Cong and one figure that took part in that event lost his (*)arm, but had it replaced by the physician Dian Cecht, earning the epithet of the silver arm. Another figure involved in the second event of this name possessed a destructive eye that required four men to open using an eyelid ring and was known as Balor, grandson of Net. Other prominent figures who took part in these two events include Nuada, Morrigan, Dagda, and a figure that wielded the Gorias spear, Lug. For 10 points, give the common name shared by these two battles in which the Tuatha D Danann fought Fir Bolg and the Fomairi.

The main account of this figure comes from the Book of Leinster. One man sent to follow this figure ended up losing his eye after a silver chess piece was thrown at him. This figure had brothers-in-law named Ardan and Ainle who were killed at the Battle of Emain Macha. This figure was raised by Leabharcham, who was once sent to spy on this figure but reported only lies. This figure went to Alba with a son of Usnach, after which they were forced to flee to a remote island. One person in the story of this figure swears oaths that force him to attend many alefests and goes to fight for Ailill and Medb after going into exile in Connacht. After Cathbad's prophecy was fulfilled and Eogan slew Naoise, this figure was captured by Conchobar, who intended to forcibly marry this figure. The death of this figure came from leaping out of a chariot, or possibly from grief. For ten points, name this figure from the Ulster cycle, the most beautiful woman in Ireland and causer of many sorrows.

One queen of this place married Epopeus after she was seduced by Zeus and was given as a slave to Dirce by her father Nycteus. Another daughter of a king of this city gave birth to Mopsus and was forced to oversee the oracle of Apollo atColophon. In addition to Antiope, a general of this city's army, originally fromTiryns, fled here after killing his father-in-law Electryon over a dispute about some cattle. Megareus sacrificed himself in order to save this city, and(*) Amphiaraus was tricked into going to war against this city after he was given a necklace belonging to Harmonia. Amphion and Zetheus are said to have built this city's walls, and its founder was told by the oracle ofDelphito follow a cow to its current site; that founder, along with his brothersPhoenixand Cilix, had been told by their father Agenor not to come home until their sister Europa was found. Melanippus was among the defenders of this city against an army led by Polynices. For 10 points, name this Greek city-state founded by Cadmus.

During periods of no rain, members of this culture would tie up black dogs and refuse to feed them until it rained, hoping that the rain god Ilyap'a would take pity. This culture's moon god Coniraya once disguised his semen as a fruit, which was eaten by the virgin Cavillaca, resulting in her pregnancy. This culture believed in an underworld ruled by Supay, a name used by their descendants to describe Satan. This culture's greatest temple was built at the only spot where a magical staff sank into the ground. According to this culture's flood myth, two humans survived by sealing themselves in a cave. In this culture's creation myth, the gods make already-pregnant women from rocks. These peoples worshiped a deity depicted as a sun with a face, Inti, and the goddess Pachamama, and their chief deity emerged from a lake. For ten points, name this culture whose main god was Viracocha, residents of Peru who were conquered by Pizarro.

One epithet used in the Homeric hymn to this figure is Tritogeneia, which may refer to this deity's birth near Lake Tritonis in Libya. In the Iliad, the figure's priestess is Theano and this deity compelled Laodecus to break the war's initial truce by firing an arrow at Menelaus. This deity promised immortality to Tydeus, but reneged on the promise after he ate the brains of Melanippus. This goddess was the foster mother of Erichthonius, who was born when Hephaestus attempted to rape her and his ejaculate fell on the ground. This goddess, who was often referred to Glaukopis or grey-eyed, gave Tiresias the power of prophecy after she blinded him for seeing her naked while bathing. Usually depicted wearing a peplos, this goddess won a famous weaving contest by depicting how she defeated Poseidon became the patron of her namesake city. Born from Zeus' head, for ten points, name this olive-tree bearing Greek goddess of wisdom and warfare.

According to Apollodorus, Zeus hurled the goddess Ate from Olympus and she landed at this place. One early ruler of this place had three thousand horses who could run on the top of wheat stalks, and an early queen of this place was named Batea. It's not Thebes, but the founder of this place followed a cow until it sat down, and one future ruler of this place was named Podarces. One member of its royal house was abducted by Zeus to become the cupbearer of the gods, and sea monster was sent to this city to devour Hesione because one ruler of this place cheated Apollo and Poseidon after they helped built its walls. In addition to Ganymede and Laomedon, early kings of this place included Dardanus and Ilus, and this city was home to the Palladium. For 10 points, identify this city whose final residents included Hecuba, Hector, and king Priam.

Girls from Troezen who were just about to be married offered locks of their hair to this figure to commemorate their virginity. This figure shares his name with a giant killed by Hermes, and by his father this man was the half-brother of Demophoon. This man was cursed by Aphrodite after building a rival deitys temple near her lands, which curse resulted in his death. This man married the nymph Egeria, and changed his name to Virbius after being brought back to life by Asclepius. Either a wild bull or a sea monster terrified this figures horses, which dragged this figure to his death in an olive grove. This man was a favorite of Artemis, who may have avenged his death by having Adonis killed and his mother is given in some legends as Antiope. His death came about when his father prayed to Poseidon after this mans stepmother Phedre alleges that he had tried to rape her. For 10 points, identify this mythological son of Theseus and a similarly-named Amazonian queen whose girdle was the target of Heracles ninth labor.

Rather strangely, this figure had both a wife and a daughter  named Polydora, the latter which he sired with Antigone. Antigone would commit suicide when she heard  from the Queen of Iolcus that this figure had married to Sterope. When this figure became jealous of his step brother, Phocus, he and his brother, Telamon, plotted and succeeded in killing him while practicing for the pentathalon. This man accidentally killed his father-in-law, Eurytion, during the Calydonian Boar Hunt. This son of Endeis was given the immortal horses, Balias and Xanthas by Poseidon, and with the help of Proteus, he was able to capture his third wife, who was a shape shifter.. At his wedding to that woman, an item inscribed with the phrase Kallisti thrown by Eris caused quite stir among Hera, Athena and Aphrodite, leading to a beauty contest judged by Paris. For ten points, name this member of the Argonauts, who was offered immortality by his wife, Thetis, and fathered Achilles.

In one story, this god chews up and spits out another goddess' necklace, creating five sons he trades for three of her daughters. One of this god's sons taught a rabbit to heal its wounds and earned a princess' favor, after which this god's other 80 sons killed that brother by hurling a flaming rock at him. This god forces that same son, Oo-Namuchi to spend a night in a room filled with centipedes after Oo-Namuchi tries to marry this god's daughter, Suseri-hime. He found the sword Kusanagi in the remains of the creature he is most famous for slaying, and in another story, he dishonors his sister by using her temple as a toilet, then throwing a flayed horse into it. That sister then flees into a cave, blocking out sunlight from the world. Born when his father Izanagi washed out his nose, for 10 points, name this Shinto storm god and brother of Amaterasu, most famous for slaying the eight-headed serpent Yamata-no-Orochi.

This mans marriage to Argia, the daughter of a king who gave him shelter, would make him the uncle by marriage of Diomedes, who was the son of Argias sister Deiphyle. In order to secure the allegiance of Amphiaraus, this man bribed Eriphyle with the necklace of Harmonia. The position once sought by this man would eventually be achieved by his son Thersander, who also bribed Eriphyle with Harmonias robe to persuade Alcmaeon to accompany him. Companions of this man included Capaneus and Hippomedon, and this man was one of two cursed for refusing to give his father shelter. Of those who accompanied this man on his most famous quest, including Tydeus and Parthenopaeus, only Adrastus survived, and this mans burial was carried out against Creons order by this mans sister, Antigone. For ten points, identify this son of Oedipus and Jocasta and member of the expedition of the Seven against Thebes, who died fighting his brother Eteocles.

Topic 4: 

One work of this genre and number follows its second movement scherzo with a series of three increasingly loud variations, which are marked molto leggiero, impetuoso--sveglio, and con fuoco e furioso. That work is divided into two movements, Cantilne and Dithyrambe, and is by Karl Amadeus Hartmann. Other works of this genre and number include Rautavaara's The Journey and Penderecki's Song of Transience, while another work opens with an Allegro Molto movement that quotes Je n'aimais pas le tabac beaucoup from Gluck's Le Diable a Quatre and ends with a movement called La Tempesta. In addition to Haydn's Le (*) soir, one work of this genre and number ends with singing of the "Eternal feminine" by the Chorus Mysticus in a setting of Goethe's Faust, Part II, which follows a setting of the Veni Creator Spiritus. For 10 points, give the number and genre of these compositions, which include a Mahler work "of a thousand."

Alfred Schnittkes second work of this type uses a theme from his film score for Agony in its fifth movement Grave section. Carl Stamitz wrote three of these for the King of Prussia, and another of these was written for Raya Garbousova. That works second movement features a siciliana-like oboe melody, and its first movement opens with a short motive consisting of a 2/4 and a 3/4 bar. Another work of this type has three movements that are played continuously, and uses a repeated descending triplet theme. That A-minor work, its composers first, was dedicated to Auguste Tolbecque. Another piece of this type sees the violas present the first theme after the soloists opening four-bar recitative. FTP, name this type of orchestral work featuring a solo string instrument, which include one by Barber, two by Saint-Saens, and an E-minor one notably recorded by Jacqueline du Pr and composed by Elgar.

He wrote one symphony in which an F# chord changes rapidly to an F#7, B, B minor, and C#7 in its first movement, and opens its third movement with a D major minuet.  Another symphony by this composer opens with a movement with siciliano character and whose first, second and fourth movements are in sonata form.  This composer of the Linz and Haffner symphonies wrote an opera in which Dorabella sings the aria Smanie implacabili before singing the duet Il core vi dono with Guglielmo, and one in which Tamino sings the aria Dies Bildnis ist bezaubernd schn and the aria O zittre nicht, mein lieber Sohn is sung by the Queen of the Night.  For 10 pointsname this composer of Cosi fan tutte and The Magic Flute, whose final symphony contains the air Voi siete un po tondo in its first movement and is nicknamed the Jupiter Symphony.

The 100th measure of this piece begins with an A flat marked cantabile dolce ed espressivo, while the first movement ends with a coda whose final note is one of its composer's few uses of triple forte. The second movement has a scherzo trio marked semplice, and it begins with a series of B flat major chords. The last movement is a fugue marked allegro risoluto and is supposed to be played con alucne licenze. That movement's theme is based on a descending seven note scale. The allegretto movement of this work drew comparison to the Danza Tedesca section of the composer's thirteenth string quartet in B-flat. Another part of this piece has (*) trills in both hands during ascending octaves. For 10 points, identify this piano sonata by Beethoven whose name comes from the German translation of pianoforte.

In the third movement of this symphony, a bassoon attempts to accompany a theme played by the oboe, but can only play the two notes F and C. At the end of its second movement, an oboe, a flute, and a clarinet respectively imitate the calls of a quail, a nightingale, and a cuckoo. In its fourth movement, a five-note passage for the cellos is played along a similar four-note passage for the double basses, creating an ominous rumbling before the entrance of timpani imitating the sound of thunder during a furious storm. This symphony's five movements include ones titled "By the Brook," "A merry gathering of country folk," and "Cheerful impressions awakened by arrival in the country." Premiered in 1808 along with its composer's C minor fifth symphony, for 10 points, name this Beethoven symphony that portrays rural life and nature.

Alexander Scriabin's opus 74 consists of five of these pieces, including one marked "Trs lent, contemplatif." Alberto Ginastera included tributes to Juan Jose Castro and Aaron Copland in his twelve American ones. One of these in D flat major marked "Sostenuto" was nicknamed for its repetition of A flat in the left hand. One of these pieces consisting of arpeggiated chords opens J. S. Bach's first cello suite. Rachmaninoff's opus 3 number 2 is one of these pieces in C sharp minor, while Chopin's set of twenty-four of them includes one known as the "Raindrop." For 10 points, name these pieces paired with fugues in The Well-Tempered Clavier, named for their origin as short introductions to longer works.

The composer of these works referred to a funeral dirge in the first in A minor, likely prompted by his unrequited love for Stefi Geyer, and he also called the Allegro molto capriccioso movement of the second work a kind of rondo. The last opens each movement with a section marked Mesto, and that work's Marcia and Burletta sections may have been inspired by similar sections in the composer's work Contrasts. The fifth has a third movement (*) Scherzo alla bulgarese, while the third is entirely in one movement. The fourth has a second movement called Prestissimo, con sordino, and that work's fourth movement is to be played entirely in pizzicato. For 10 points, name this group of six chamber works by the composer of Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta.

Mozarts only work in this key is his Violin Sonata No. 21, and it is also the key of a lute suite composed by J. S. Bach. This key describes Johann Brahmss fourth symphony, as well as Giuseppi Verdis only string quartet. Tchaikovskys fifth symphony is in this key, as is the New World Symphony. The submediant of this key is C, while F sharp is its supertonic. One concerto in this key was inspired by a melody that gave its composer no peace. Jacqueline du Pr popularized Edward Elgars (*) cello concerto in this key, which is also the key of Felix Mendelssohns Violin Concerto. G major is the relative major of this key, which has only one sharp. For ten points, name this minor key whose tonic is a whole step above D.

The second movement of this symphony opens with wind chords alternating with a lyrical polyphonic melody for the strings and is an Andante con moto in E major and 3/8 time. The first movement is in 3/4 and opens with a legato melody in the celli and basses, which is followed by a sixteenth-note ostinato for violins in thirds, and the main melody for oboe and clarinet. The second subject of the movement is first played in the celli, to the accompaniment of syncopated woodwinds and first violin, and is unusually in G major, instead of the D major expected in a B minor sonata-form. Incidental music from Rosamunde is used in some musicologist's' completions of, for 10 points, what orchestral work by Franz Schubert, which has only two movements instead of the usual four?

The third movement of this work opens with alternating E flat and A flat chords, and English horns feature prominently in the trio of that movement, a scherzo. A C major trio follows the development of a C minor procession theme in this compositions second movement, a funeral march. In the recapitulation of its first movement, a solo horn enters with the theme four bars before the rest of the orchestra. The last movement of this work uses a melody that its composer had placed in (*) The Creatures of Prometheus. Two tutti sforzando chords open this symphony in E flat major, which was rededicated to the memory of a great man instead of to Napoleon Bonaparte. For 10 points, name this symphony by Ludwig van Beethoven nicknamed Eroica.

Topic 5: 

This type of spectroscopy was the original type used in a method to find the equilibrium constant for association in host-guest chemistry named for Benesi and Hildebrand, which has since then been generalized. Wavelength shifts in this form of spectroscopy are described as bathochromic or hypsochromic. Bands of transitions measured with this technique are denoted R, K, B, and E. Many devices marketed for flash chromatography use a photodiode array or charge-coupled device to simultaneously perform this form of spectroscopy on the analyte. The emissions lines in this spectral range due to charge-transfer complexes are allowed by all selection rules. A selection rule that governs transitions in this wavelength requires transitions not to conserve symmetry with respect to an inversion center; that rule is named for Laporte. The wavelength of maximum absorption in this technique is computed by a set of rules that add thirty nanometers for a tertiary amine and start from two different base values, for homo- and heteroannular dienes; those rules are named for Woodward and Fieser. For 10 points, name this form of spectroscopy, which can also apply to transitions in transition metal complexes and which employs a range of the EM spectrum a bit shorter than infrared.

[AR] Numerical investigations of this process following Haigh's suggestion assumes the optimal class is an isolated population,and Mukai's observations of viability modifiers on the second chromosome of Drosophila melanogastercan provides estimates for its efficiency.Its effectiveness is dependent on the number of individualsNand thus this model's rate is equal toNtimes e to the quantity negativeUdivided bys, wheresis the selection coefficient andUis thePoisson mean number.In small populations this process is dominated by the establishment phase andis similar to the "error-catastrophe" theory of somatic aging suggested by Orgel. It has been shown that this model is mathematically equivalent to theHill-Robertson effect and the current name for this eponymous mechanism is attributed to a 1974 paper by Felsenstein, "The Evolutionary Advantage of Recombination." Its namesake won the 1946 Nobel for his discovery that X-Rays increase the rate of mutation. Proposing to explain the comparative advantage of?sexual reproduction and co-developed by R.A. Fisher, for 10 points, name this model that describes how genomes of asexual populations irreversibly accumulate deleterious mutations and for which its efficiency is described in number of "turns."

The total radiative loss rate predicted by this equation exhibits drops proportional to gamma squared, with which namesake steps are associated; those steps are sudden increases in the equilibrium spectrum of certain cosmic ray particles. Chao's experiments to test this equation, which seemed to find deviations in heavy elements, were later found to have been early evidence of pair production and annihilation. A primitive and incorrect form of this equation derived separately by Dirac and by Gordon omitted its final two terms since it neglected spin. This equation's classical precursor gives sigma as eight thirds pi times the square of quantity e squared over m c squared and was developed by J. J. Thomson. The differential form of this equation contains terms cubic, quadratic, and linear in the ratio of before and after photon energy. For 10 points, name this early result of quantum electrodynamics, which gives the differential cross section of photon scattering from a free electron.

Baudoin developed an efficient one-pot way to generate ortho- substituted products based on this reaction, while Beller developed a technique using diadamantyl-n-butylphosphane ligands to carry out this reaction using in situ formed complex catalysts. A group including Kim, Lee, and Hyeon developed a version of this reaction that used hollow silica spheres to create spherical recyclable heterogeneous catalysts of a certain metal. This reaction is commonly used for macrocylicization in the synthesis of Rutamycin B. Sodium carbonate and potassium carbonate are commonly used in this reactionfor activation of one reagent for the transmetallation step. Nickel can be used as a catalyst for a version of this reaction for aryl chlorides. The mechanism of this reaction is somewhat similar to the Stille reaction, and it is an efficient way in a synthesis to create carbon-carbon bonds between two aryls. The traditional catalyst consists of four triphenylphosphines bound to a certain metal. For 10 points, name this palladium-catalyzed reaction that couples aryl boronic acids and aryl halides.

One chloride of this element may be used with dibromomethane and zinc metal to convert ketenes to allenes in a method found independently by Lombardo and Takai. This element's affinity for oxygen is essential to the second step of the McMurry reaction; another chloride of this element is used to activate silyl enol ethers. This element's trichloride is used in polypropylene production. The two processes used to obtain this element use reduction with coke and fractional distillation followed by liquid metal reduction; the first used sodium and the second used more easily recycled liquid magnesium. Impurities of this element's dioxide give star sapphires their asterism. This metal is the center of the Petasis reagent, and it is also found in Tebbe's reagent, which is an aluminum-containing metallocene of this element. This element is found with aluminum in Ziegler-Natta catalysts. Isolated by the Hunter and Kroll processes, for 10 points, name this strong metal which is extracted from ores called ilmenite and rutile.

In the ReaxFF model, this quantity is held constant for a given set of angle and torsion terms, and is continuously updated in terms of energy and length. The IUPAC definition of this quantity gives it as a double sum over the products of the elements of the density matrix and the overlap matrix. Potentials named after this quantity include the Finnis-Sinclair and Tersoff potentials, and this quantity can be experimentally determined as e to the power of the quantity R sub ij minus d sub ij divided by the constant b, which is approximately 0.353. In organometallic complexes, a reduction of this quantity occurs between a metal and an alkene due to backdonation, according to the Dewar-Chatt-Duncanson model. Dimolybdenum unusually has a value of 6 for this quantity, while di-tungsten tetra-hpp has a value of four for this quantity between the two tungsten atoms. It can be more easily determined from molecular orbital theory as half the difference between the number of electrons in bonding orbitals and anti-bonding orbitals. For 10 points, name this quantity, which is two for a double bond and three for a triple bond.

A simplification of the Frobenius criterion on space groups that gives the degeneracies that double under this statement's corresponding operator is named for Herring. The square of that operator is plus one for integral spin and minus one for half-integral spin. A criterion given by Wolfenstein for this property was applied by Sehgal and van Leusen to analyze CPLEAR, an experiment at CERN that showed a difference between the rates of antikaon to kaon transitions and kaon to antikaon transitions. Loschmidt's paradox concerns its violation in the molecular chaos assumption of Boltzmann's H-theorem. Noether's theorem relates this property to energy conservation. A theorem which would be violated were neutrons to have nonzero electric dipole moment holds that the product of this property with charge conjugation and parity is always preserved. Applying that to a black hole gives a white hole. For 10 points, name statemen, whose corresponding operator would cause events to happen backwards.

For surface chemistry, this quantity is proportional to surface coverage times number of sites, though for bimolecular cases it requires the models developed by Langmuir and Hinshelwood or by Eley and Rideal. On water reactions have an unexpected dependence solvent dependence of this property. Properties of the potential energy surface give estimates of this quantity for one case in an improvement that allowed for zero-point energies and normal mode contributions by Marcus to a theory originated by Rice, Ramsberger, and Kassel. For a long time, this quantity varies harmonically in the Briggs-Rauscher reaction. This quantity can be given as proportional to the reactant concentrations raised to exponents called orders; the constant of proportionality is itself proportional to the exponential of negative activation energy over ideal gas constant times temperature in the Arrhenius equation. For 10 points, name this quantity given by the time derivative of a product concentration over its stoichiometric coefficient, the speed at which a chemical transformation takes place.

Tumors originating from one type of these cells are identified by perivascular rosettes, and HIV-1's Tat protein can increase expression of the JC virus genome in these cells. One subtype is marked by enlarged processes and eosinophilic cytoplasm. Members of another subtype of these cells are functionally influenced by a namesake fibrillary acidic protein, and are called gemistocytes. Other groups include those which secrete a thick protein-rich fluid, known as ependymal cells. Some of these cells direct the migration of neurons, while others tightly regulate which compounds diffuse into the brain from blood vessels. One type synthesizes growth factors following Wallerian degeneration and wraps its cell membrane multiple times around portions of adjacent cells, forming a myelin sheath. Including astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and Schwann cells, for 10 points, are which components of neural tissue that support and nourish neurons?

A pair of equations governing these objects has a solution named for Buchdahl. Latimer showed that the equation of state for one form of these objects is soft at low density and stiff at high density. These objects exhibition a phase transition from a spaghetti phase to a Swiss cheese phase when moving towards the core. Gamow and Scheonberg postulated a mechanism by which these stars would emit a neutrino to cool, known as the Urca process. These objects are postulated to have an outer core that consists of a Fermi liquid, while their core composition is unknown. The fact that their crusts are very stiff means that when these objects slow their rotation, the crust quickly adjusts in a starquake. The upper limit of these object's mass is postulated to be between 1.5 to 2 solar masses, a value known as the Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff limit. They form when the core of a star collapses during a supernova. For 10 points, name these dense stars made of a namesake neutral particle

Topic 6: 

At one point, a woman spends five hours dragging her champion bull Count out of a swamp back to save her company Arcady Breeders. Its characters reminisce about The Kid From Tomkinsville, a baseball player who dies making a game-winning catch to send his team to the World Series. The main character gives away his daughter's Audrey Hepburn scrapbook and stuttering diary to a woman named Rita Cohen who later tells him his daughter is working at a cat and dog hospital. At the end of this novel (*) Bill Orcutt stabs the main character's father in the eye with a fork and Orcutt earlier had an affair with the former Miss New Jersey Dawn Dwyer. Describing the aftermath of the main character's daughter Merry's decision to blow up a post office in Rimrock, for 10 points, name this Philip Roth novel in which Zuckerman imagines the life of high school football star The Swede. [Gioia]

[MB]Near the end of this play, one character brags about how his great-grandfather was the chief of the Vigilantes in San Francisco, which helps persuade the title character to give him her revolver. Another character in this play assumes the role of Uncle Sam and talks about the grief his sister May will face in order to get the title New Yorker to sign an affidavit. During this play, John and James, the relatives of "the finest man in town,"barge into a room dressed as police officers to settle an incident in which the nephew of TheSenator shot a man on a train. It opens with an accused man begging the title character to tell The Judge that he is innocent and that Thomas actually tried to rape the title character. During this play, Fred falls in love with Lizzie Mackayand tries to shootThe Negro. For 10 points, name this?Jean-Paul Sartre play that criticizes American race relations.

This author's first novel features a protagonist who romances a nine-fingered girl in his eighteen days before going back to college. The student's friend names the series of which Hear the Wind Sing is the first; the Trilogy of the Rat by this author also includes Pinball, 1973 and A Wild Sheep Chase. A short story by this author sees the title creature confess its love for a woman, only to be killed by her imagining its torture. In addition to The Little Green Monster, included in the collection The Elephant Vanishes, this author also wrote a novel in which Johnnie Walker tries to kill cats to make a flute, and the title character seeks his mother and sister and reads A Thousand and One Nights. The author of a novel in which Naoko's suicide drives Toru Watanabe into a wandering spell, this is, for 10 points, what author of Norwegian Wood and Kafka on the Shore?

One character in this play asks the audience to offer up their chairs to the two ushers along the stage while characters like Mr. Tremayne and Hester replace a bunch of actors who have suffered from food poisoning. The final scene of this drama has the stage going completely black for a moment before concluding that this play isn't finished. A blind beggar with a guitar named Homer appears in this play whose central family is visited by the Muses. The maid in the first and final acts is replaced by a beauty queen in the second act of this drama whose central family includes Gladys and Henry. That family is visited by animals from Noah's Ark and Moses. George Antrobus is a character in, for ten points, what play that features ice ages and purports to tell the history of humans written by Thornton Wilder?

In one of this man's ironically titled short stories, a woman accidently falls off a step ladder while carrying an unborn child named Crispin, whose father had died.  In addition to Life Doesn't Take Itself Very Seriously, another story by this author, which is narrated by the sibling of Tacha, describes the loss of a cow during a flood. That story along with No Dogs Bark and Tell them Not to Kill Me appear in a collection, whose titular story depicts the violent yet respected Pedro Zamora. In one of this man's works, a young man is sent by Abundio to the home of Dona Eduviges to find out about the title character. Written by the author of The Golden Cock and Other Film Scripts, that highly-fragmented novel describes Juan Precadio's journey to Comala, a ghost town. For 10 points, name this Mexican author of The Burning Plain and Other Stories and Pedro Paramo.

One character in this play quotes Edmund Wallers The Self Banished before talking to a fruit-seller, whose wares he insults. Another character tears her fan into pieces while confronting a character who took another woman to a play instead of her. He breaks up with her by saying When love grows diseased, the best thing we can do is to put it to a violent death and accuses her of loving a character who was earlier described as having arrived piping hot from Paris, but who mispronounces au revoir. In this play, Lady Townleys brother stays with Emillia, not realizing that she is the love interest of his son, Bellair. Bellair has been forced into an engagement with the daughter of Lady Woodvil, Harriet, whom the protagonist eventually marries. Its main character is thought to have been based on John Wilmot, the second Earl of Rochester, and is named Dorimant. For 10 points, name this play which includes the fashioned-obsessed dandy Sir Fopling Flutter, a Restoration comedy by George Etherege.

One character in this work frequently visits the young Olive Mannering to satisfy his sexual urges. Central to this work is the manipulative nature of the housekeeper Mabel Pettigrew, who blackmails her mistress to make Mabel the benefactor of her estate. That mistress, Lisa Brooke, had an affair with Godfrey Colston. Godfrey's sister Lettie isolates herself after the central events don't stop and dies trying to fend off a robber in this novel. Chief Inspector Henry Mortimer is unable to determine the culprit who sends mysterious messages to the central characters of this work. Set in the 1950s, it shows how the residents of a (*) nursing home cope, or fail to cope, with their impending death. For 10 points, identify this work in which some senile folks receives anonymous phone calls with the message Remember, you must die, a novel by Muriel Spark.

He wrote one play which opens with the Young Man performing calisthenics near the title object, though he reveals to the Grandmother that he is actually the Angel of Death at the end of the play.  This author of The Sandbox wrote another play in which Martin Gray reveals a bestial affair to his family on the talk show "People Who Matter", and one play in which HIMSELF tells the story of his life to MAN and WOMAN.  In addition to The Goat, or Who is Sylvia? and The Man Who Had Three Arms, he wrote a play in which Jerry attempts to frame Peter for his own murder after telling him his life story on a bench in New York City.  For 10 pointsname this author of The Zoo Story who created the party games "Hump the Hostess" and "Get the Guests", which are played by Martha, George, Nick, and Honey in his play Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?

He wrote an early work about a man named David Beeves who discovers he has great fortune and can fix any problem. That work, The Man who Had All the Luck, was criticized for its repetitious plot and was a complete failure. One work takes place insidethe mind of a man married to a woman named Maggie. That man, Quentin, is meant to be a reflection of the author's failed marriage andappears in After the Fall.Another of his plays takes place in the backyard of the Kellers' and wasinspired by a true story about a man who sold defective airplane parts during World War Two. In addition to writing All My Sons, one of his works concerns Biff, Happy and Willy Loman while another focuses on the Salem Witch Trials. FTP, identify this American author who wroteTheDeath of a Salesman and The Crucible. 

In the fourth scene of the play he appears in, this character tells a story about going to a magic show and seeing a magician escaping from a nailed-down coffin. He calls his mother an "ugly  babbling  witch" for returning his DH Lawrence novel to the library, and tells her that he envies "how lucky dead people are" every time he wakes up to go to his job at a shoe warehouse. At the end of the play in which he appears, he begs his sister to "blow out the candles," and reveals that he descended a fire escape to join the Merchant Marine. In the opening scene of the play in which he appears, this character tells the audience that it is based on his memories. The climax of that play occurs when he invites Jim O'Connor over for dinner, causing Jim to kiss and then abandon his fragile sister Laura. For ten points, name this character who narrates The Glass Menagerie.

