Jeopardy Topics and Their Questions 
Topic 0: 

Tragedy:"Victorious!""Rue the tears I shed!""Banishment!""Son!""Ah!""Ha ha ha ha ha!""Ha ha ha ha ha!""Mad?  Not!""Ugh!""Ugh!""Uh-huh!  Emperor!"

Title of the following:"Promise me, Son, not to do the things I've done / Walk away from trouble if you can / Now, it won't mean you're weak if you turn the other cheek / I hope you're old enough to understand..."

Piece of furniture featured in this 1878 song: It was bought on the morn of the day that he was born And was always his treasure and pride But it stopped, short never to go again When the old man died

Its second verse begins, "See the blazing yule before us, fa la la la la la la la la"

Jacques Delille:"Le sort fait les parents, le choix fait les amis"--Fate chooses our relatives, we choose these

This Frenchman who gave us the "Sleeping Beauty" story also wrote such poems as "Le Siecle de Louis le Grand"

"Thou must know Pearl! Our little Pearl! Thou hast seen her,--Yes, I know it!--but thou wilt see her now with other eyes"

Created by Charles Perrault, this fairy tale villain who killed 6 wives may be based on real murderer Gilles de Rais

Name this tragedy:"Love you.""Love you.""Speak.  ...Nothing will come of nothing!""Hmph!""Hmph!""Huh?  I should go mad!  Blbl-blbl-blbl-blbl-bl!  Oh, no life!  Oh!"

"Y'know, Arthur", Hester said, "Roger's gonna be home soon. & I think having an affair in this town is a bad, bad idea"

Topic 1: 

(Paula Deen stirs something up.)  Hey, y'all--I make a very easy version of this classic Christmas gift with pecans, dates, cherries &, of course, 1/2 a cup of good old-fashioned bourbon

Soda on top of ice cream makes an ice cream soda; put the ice cream on top & it's called this, like a root beer one

"Oh bring us a figgy pudding, oh bring us a figgy pudding, oh bring us a figgy pudding and a cup of"

2 large orders of popcorn chicken, 2 biscuits, potato wedges, BBQ beans, Lil' Bucket lemon creme, large Pepsi

A basic ingredient in Thai cuisine is prik kee noo, a small, spicy one of these named for its resemblance to a mouse dropping

A Cape Codder is made with vodka, cranberry juice & a lime wedge; add this tart fruit juice to make it a seabreeze

(Paula Deen sprinkles toppings.)  Pizza gets a down-home flavor, y'all, when I top it with meat from ham hocks & these traditional Southern greens

Instead of butter, saute in oil to consume less saturated fat; this flavorless oil has the least sat fat & also has omega-3s

This light, airy 6-letter cake gets its texture from beaten egg whites folded into a mix of beaten egg yolks & sugar

The male of this baboon relative is quite colorful--blue cheeks, a long red nose & a red, blue & violet rump

Topic 2: 

[Former President Jimmy Carter speaks from the Carter Center in Atlanta]  In 1994, with Pres. Clinton's approval, I & Carter Center staffers brokered a cease-fire by this country's Muslims & Serbs

(I'm Campbell Brown.)  On March 4, 2008 John McCain clinched the GOP nomination with 4 primary wins including this vast state, where he made his victory remarks

(Hi. I'm Martin Luther King III.) In 1955, my father led a bus boycott in Montgomery after this woman was arrested for refusing to give up her seat

Last name of father & son Niels & Aage, who both won the Nobel Prize in Physics; Aage was born the year his dad won

The first Borgia to become pope was Calixtus III, whose first Papal Act in 1455 was to try to recover this city from the Turks

Due to the Great Schism of 1378, Pope Urban VI remained in Rome; rival pope Clement VII moved to this city

In July, military leaders in this country freed Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi from house arrest

A young lawyer defends a black Vietnam hero who murdered white rapists in this first John Grisham legal thriller

[Former President Jimmy Carter speaking from the Carter Center in Atlanta]  From Latin for "I forbid", it's what I did to 31 very bad bills passed by Congress

She defected to the United States in '67, lost Soviet citizenship, went back to Russia in '84, got citizenship back, fled in '86

Topic 3: 

(I'm Dr. Jane Goodall.) As a child, I dreamed of living among wild animals, influenced by my favorite book characters, Dr. Dolittle & this "Lord of the Jungle" (I knew I'd be a better jungle companion for him than that other wimpy Jane)

(I'm BBC news anchor Katty Kay.)  I can't get enough of Maggie Smith's dowager countess on this PBS show with lines like "Don't be defeatist, dear, it's very middle class"

(Hi.  I'm Robin Quivers.)  I love watching "The Godfather", which earned supporting actor Oscar nominations for Al Pacino, James Caan & this man who played consigliere Tom Hagen

(Ben Mankiewicz reads.)  Bette Davis had wanted the part of Martha in this film & Elizabeth Taylor does a little Davis impression when she says to Richard Burton's character George, "What a dump!"

(Here's a former "Jeopardy!" college contestant, Maggie Bandur, who's now a writer on "Malcolm in the Middle".) On an episode of mine, Malcolm's mother, played by this actress, has to go to the funeral of an aunt she hated

(Hi, I'm Kyra Sedgwick.)  I'm always listening to this band's classics like "Crash", but true fans know you've got to see DMB live to really get the experience

Despite the title of the following early hit, this artist is smart enough to be a star 20 years later: "Just because I'm blonde don't think I'm dumb because this dumb blonde ain't nobody's fool!"

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE):"(Hi, I'm Alan Rachins)  When I played legal eagle Douglas Brackman on this hit TV series, I got to date Vanna White"

Oh baby, it's the 1990 hit heard here"It burned like a ball of fire /When the rebel took a little child bride /To tease yeah /So go easy yeah"

(Rob Reiner starts us off.)  My movie "The Bucket List" stars Morgan Freeman & this acting legend whom I also directed when he played Col. Jessup in "A Few Good Men"

Topic 4: 

(Cesar Millan snaps his fingers and makes a short vocal sound to a dog before giving the clue.)  Operant conditioning is a fancy way of saying learning from consequences, like the simple act of correction; it is part of this school of psychology that deals with actions, not inner states, so it works well with dogs

(Sarah of the Clue Crew shows us diagrams from the Hall of Human Origins at the Smithsonian.)  Comparing MRI scans of a chimp's brain & a human's shows that the human's is not merely larger; it also contains vastly more white matter connecting these cells vital to the transmission & processing of information

(Sarah of the Clue Crew reports from behind the wheel of a Tesla at Tesla Motors in Fremont, CA.)  Unlike an internal combustion gas engine with many moving parts, a Tesla motor only has one, the rotor--as a result, this increase in velocity is instantaneous, allowing you to go from 0 to 60 in 4.2 seconds

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew stands in front of another apparatus.)  A device that uses microchips to detect one cancer cell in a billion may supersede this technique of taking tissue samples from living patients and may lead to finding  cancers before tumors form

(Sarah of the Clue Crew presents the clue.)  Researchers at the ballistics impact lab established with countless tests that a one-pound piece of insulating foam pierced the thermal protection system of this shuttle in 2003; the counterintuitive finding helped make the shuttle program safe to fly again

(Jimmy of the Clue Crew brings us the clue from outside CERN in Geneva, Switzerland.) CERN's globe is a symbol of the Earth and sustainable development; its structure is wood, a material that minimizes the greenhouse effect, due to its ability to store rather than emit this element.

(Sarah of the Clue Crew shows us a screen depicting several intersecting lines.) You're looking at an optical illusion. The converging lines make your brain think you're moving into the image, so the horizontal lines seem bowed, but are actually this, from the Greek for side by side

(Sarah of the Clue Crew sits around shooting rubber bands at stacked plastic cups with Jimmy & Kelly.)  Even with a rubber band, this 4-letter term means to pull back the string to bend the bow--yes!--a word used by archers & artists

(Kelly of the Clue Crew experiments with water and a paper clip.)  Drop a paper clip into water, it sinks; drop it onto a paper towel, & because of the attraction of molecules of the same substance, called cohesion, this condition is created that seems to form a skin, allowing it to float

(Jon of the Clue Crew shows himself on the monitor, swiveling around in a chair with dumbbells in his hands, extending and contracting his arms.)  When I draw my arms inward, my angular velocity increases because my angular mass decreases; the product of those two quantities is called angular this

Topic 5: 

(Alex reports from the Galapagos Islands, Ecuador.)  Many giant tortoise subspecies in the Galapagos are named for the islands on which they are found, like these beauties here on this fertile island whose name is Spanish for "holy cross"

Sacre bleu!  Eet takes so long sailing from Dover to zees closest French port; next time, I take zee Chunnel

This New York City river is actually a tidal strait connecting upper New York Bay with Long Island Sound

This national park off California's coast consists of Santa Barbara, San Miguel, Santa Rosa, Santa Cruz & Anacapa Islands

The Soo Canals at the twin cities of Sault Ste Marie in Michigan & Ontario allow ships to pass between these two Great Lakes

At the Intercontinental Hotel, check out the whales from Lakeshore Drive & the Navy Pier in this city[Addendum: Lake Shore Drive & Navy Pier]

It consists of Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Ajman, Ra's Al Khaymah, Ash Shariqah, Umm Al Qaywayn & Al Fujayrah

Geyser Gulch, the world's largest tree house, is one of the features at Silver Dollar City in this Missouri tourist mecca

The white at the top of a Canadian territorial coat of arms represents the polar regions; the wavy blue line, this trade route

Hells Canyon, North America's deepest canyon, lies in this Idaho national forest named for Chief Joseph's tribe

Topic 6: 

(Alex reports from Detroit, MI.)  As of 2009, there are 3 NHL arenas with no corporate sponsorship, Nassau Coliseum, Madison Square Garden & this Detroit one, named for a famous sports legend

(I'm Andrew Ross Sorkin.)  I founded DealBook, a Times Financial blog that covers stories like this company's aquisition of Tumblr, which we called "putting the exclamation point back in the company name"

[Hi, I'm Champ Bailey, college football's top defensive player of 1998]  The award for top defensive player in college football is named for Bronislaw Nagurski, whose nickname was this

(Hi, I'm Shannon Sharpe of the Denver Broncos)  In Super Bowl XXXII, this Denver running back, my teammate, ran for 157 yards, scored 3 TDs & was named MVP

What a fun game--buy insurance; pay taxes; get in a ski accident; get fired; bottom line--get the highest dollar amount

(Alex reports from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange)  Dec. 15, 1886 was the first time that more than this benchmark number of shares were traded in one single day here on the NYSE

(Im Hall of Fame running back John Riggins.)  In 1983 I rushed for a then record 24 TDs; the Redskins offensive line who opened holes for me had this nickname

(Hi, I'm New York Yankees fan Rudy Giuliani.)  The 1920 purchase of this Boston ballplayer for about $125,000 forever changed the history of the New York Yankees

(Hi, I'm Jason Elam of the Denver Broncos.)  In 1998 I earned a trip to the NFL's Pro Bowl, held each year in this city where I played college ball

(VIDEO DAILY DOUBLE):"(Hi, I'm Mike Piazza)  I was the NL's '93 Rookie Of The Year.  In '68 this Cincinnati Reds player became the 1st catcher to win the award"

